New post: dynmap (#89)
FalixNodes-Software/help-center: _posts/minecraft/plugins/2021-12-28-dynmap.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Dynmap"
categories: Minecraft
tags: plugins
icon: <i class="fa-duotone fa-puzzle"></i>
permalink: /minecraft/plugins/dynmap/
---

<div class="install-plugin">
    <img style="border-radius: 7px;" src="https://media.forgecdn.net/avatars/70/839/636163231189466152.png">
    <h2>Dynmap</h2>
    <h3>Team</h3> 
    <a href="https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/dynmap%C2%AE.274/download?version=433645">Download this Plugin</a>
</div>

# What Is Dynmap?

Dynmap is a plugin that lets you view a live map of your world in your browser.

## Prerequisites

- A server with Spigot or any of its forks installed (Paper, Purpur, etc).

# Allocating An Extra Port To The Server

1. Open your server's Network tab.
2. Click on "Create Allocation".
3. An extra port should be created. Use this port in the next steps.

> ![image](../../../assets/images/posts/plugins/dynmap/extra-port.png)

Reviewer: Using "../" isn't needed, you can just do:
```
/assets/images/posts/plugins/dynmap/extra-port.png".
```
or since we use Jekyll:
```
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/posts/plugins/dynmap/extra-port.png
```

</div>

# What Is Dynmap?

Dynmap is a plugin that lets you view a live map of your world in your browser.

## Prerequisites

- A server with Spigot or any of its forks installed (Paper, Purpur, etc).

# Allocating An Extra Port To The Server

1. Open your server's Network tab.
2. Click on "Create Allocation".
3. An extra port should be created. Use this port in the next steps.
![image](/assets/images/posts/plugins/dynmap/extra-port.png)

# Setting Up Dynmap

1. Open your server's File Manager.
2. Find and open the folder named "plugins".
3. Upload the downloaded .jar file, then restart your server.
4. Go back to the plugins folder and you should see that a new folder was generated, usually named "dynmap".
![image](/assets/images/posts/plugins/dynmap/upload-plugin.png)
5. Open the folder, then open the file "configuration.txt".
6. Scroll down and set `webserver-port` to your server's extra port.

    Optional but recommended:
    > Set `deftemplatesuffix:` to `vlowres` or `lowres`, this will decrease the amount of space used by the generated pictures of chunks.

7. Save the changes you made then restart your server.
![image](/assets/images/posts/plugins/dynmap/file-config.png)

> To view the map, paste `http://IP:PORT` in your browser, replace `IP` with your server's IP and the `PORT` with your server's extra port, for example: `http://ult4.falix.gg:35773`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view the map, paste `http://IP:PORT` in your browser, replace `IP` with your server's IP and the `PORT` with your server's extra port. For example: `http://ult4.falix.gg:35773`.
```

> The map may appear blank, players need to load chunks first in order for them to appear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The map may appear blank, if so, players need to load the server's chunks in order for them to appear.
```
